# minqlx
I've had people ask me about [the bot](https://github.com/MinoMino/minqlbot) with regard to the upcoming Quake Live update that will add dedicated servers, so I thought I'd make this repository in advance to address that. When I first heard about QL going Steam exclusive, my plan was to simply fix the bot, since it would inevitably break with such a big update. Eventually they revealed we'd have dedicated servers, which changed everything. Not only have I been hoping for years we would get to host our own servers, but reverse engineering the server is just so much more exciting than messing with a client due to the inevitable restrictions of administering a server using a limited set of admin commands. Not to mention there's so much more you can do by tinkering with a server (e.g. modifying game logic), that reverse engineering the server allows for much more than just an admin bot.

Anyway, as you might know from the notice on the bot's repository, I'm working on a new project for the dedicated server. It's no longer just a *bot*, or at least I'd like it to go beyond that, so I dropped the "bot" suffix and added an "x". Might sound cheesy, but I love the longevity AMX MOD added to HL based games back in the day, so think of it as a tribute. I'll also refer to it as a *server mod*, or just *mod*, instead of bot, because it makes more sense.

Oh, and finally, minqlbot still have its uses, so I'll try to make it compatible with the new client too. I don't know the details of how VAC works, but I don't think it should conflict with it. We'll see.

# Technical Details
The mod will feel very familiar to those who've worked with minqlbot. It'll run embedded Python, just like the bot. The rest of the code, though, is fairly different. Since the dedicated server runs on Linux, I had to drop minhook. I couldn't find any hooking libraries for Linux I was pleased with, so I wrote a super simple one myself specifically for this project, but at some point I might improve it and put it on its own repository. I decided to go for C11 (the GCC dialect `gnu11` to be specific) instead of C++ and dropped boost as well, meaning Python is the only dependency. I'm also writing it in such a way that will allow people to compile it without Python at all, allowing people to use it to only add a couple of extra fun rcon commands (slap, slay, print stuff on screen, play sounds, etc.). It'll also make it easier for anyone to perhaps fork it and embed another language instead, use pure C/C++, or whatever other approach that doesn't use Python.

At the time of writing, it's still at a pretty early stage (especially considering I only recently joined the beta), but with about a month before id software's current release target, I'm fairly certain it'll be fairly functional by then. That's around the time I'll release the source too. If you have any questions, feel free to get in touch with me.
